Nick, thanks so much for joining us. I wanted to start by asking you about the overarching philosophy of China's intelligence services. Well, China's intelligence services actually start out and sort of maintain a primary responsibility of protecting the party. Everything is, in that sense, internally focused. First primary responsibility is protecting the party. Second to that is now, as China's a rising power, it takes the role, the Ministry of State Security takes the role, as other global intelligence organizations will, of supporting China's interests globally. And that means military intelligence, that means political intelligence, and lastly, it also means economic intelligence. Right. Well, we have seen the Chinese go after not just information about members of the U.S. government on national, state, and local levels, but also getting national security information, information from the tech sector, critical infrastructure, as well as dissidence. Right. That there are different spheres, and you can watch not only the Ministry of State Security, but other elements of the Chinese government and Communist Party attacking different sectors like that, economic espionage, illegal exports of technology, of course, the traditional national security espionage, and many others. So how is this different than, say, Western spy agencies? Well, actually, it's quite different. China uses what we call a whole-of-society approach in conducting espionage. The United States has the CIA and the FBI, and other Western intelligence agencies exist, obviously, but they don't leverage and employ society as a major collection component of their intelligence apparatus. China does. Their state-owned enterprises, 150,000 of them, and they are literally tasked by the Chinese Communist Party to collect information and to influence foreign governments. Same thing with their companies. Their national security laws require they provide intelligence, not an option. They have to provide intelligence to the Chinese government. So they are leveraging an entire society. Right. So that would be like if you worked at Lockheed Martin or Raytheon and you had to collect information on an adversary or a person of interest. That would be like if you worked at a hotel and a foreign visitor came in, you have to collect information on that person and pass it in. And in fact, you could go look in Chinese documents and you see the statistics of how many people they recruit in hotels and restaurants and things like that to collect against foreigners in the area. So it really is a massive, massive campaign. But are they witting or unwitting? Is there a genuine desire to contribute to the protection of the party and to the intelligence services, or is it done in a way that is almost just a necessity? So that's a good question, and I don't have a great answer for it. I've read emails between Ministry of State Security officers and, for example, hotel managers, and just seen the correspondence going back and forth, hey, I'm with the Ministry of State Security in an open email, no less, and we want you to take these names off the books when we register a person. And oh, certainly, sir. Not a problem. It doesn't say I'm doing this because I feel threatened if I don't or if I'm doing this because it's a collaborative thing and I believe in it. That's a tough call to make. But certainly there would be a way to understand that if you had access to that person. Have you ever attempted to make contact with people who are committing to doing this work on behalf of the state? Oh, yeah. I certainly have spoken to individuals, people who have been recruited assets from the Ministry of State Security. And what you find out, there are a lot of subtleties in Chinese culture. It's a Confucian-based humanistic society. So as a person told me and characterized it, I think, very well, said, you know, they say they really want your help and support, and you should because there might be trouble, you know, it might be difficult otherwise. In Chinese, that's a very explicit threat. So you're speaking subtleties as is the case in that language. But a lot of them also believe in it. China's had a very, very dominating and pervasive national security patriotic campaign, you know, throughout the schooling systems. I mean, I have videos of kids who are six years old learning how to dive on grenades or shoot weapons and camouflage. That is pervasive through the Chinese educational system. So they're growing up a bit differently with a very, very strong emphasis on national security. And there's also quite a famous book, Sun Tzu's Art of War. How does that influence China's national security strategy? Actually, Sun Tzu, The Art of War is just a cornerstone of China's global strategy. And you know, there are even working groups that meet at the highest ranks of the Chinese Communist Party and the People's Liberation Army, you know, the senior generals to discuss the strategies based on what they call the warring states period, the real time when Sun Tzu's strategy came into play in China. And it is, they don't want to fight the United States ever, you know, there's no, and they say that we don't have to fight if we can control. And that's our objective. And how do they control? Everything from manipulating media to manipulating and buying off politicians to industries, you know, covert influence activities, drug warfare, all these are elements of China's unrestricted warfare program. And they were all part of Sun Tzu. The person who wins without fighting is the acne of skill, as Sun Tzu said. And that's what they're doing. So how has Xi Jinping taken this book and taken the philosophy, taken the ambition into the intelligence services? Have there been significant changes in the years that he has led the country? Sure. Xi Jinping has, well, first off, the intelligence services have become far more aggressive since Xi Jinping's been in power. He has certainly employed the United Front Work Department in a far greater capacity than ever previously. They don't draw the type of distinctions that we do between intelligence and covert influence. So they, and case in point, you know, they ran collection campaigns and they have United Front Worker, you know, organizations not only in place in society, but out of the embassy literally running collection activities. The intel services are operating on multiple fronts, right? So we have a cyber component, which is a huge collection component. Interestingly, in 2015, Xi moved the cyber responsibilities out of the People's Liberation Army, out of the cyber espionage, the cyber collection. And it was due to corruption, largely. They were collecting even against Chinese companies and passing it off to other Chinese companies. So he said, okay, enough, and moved the cyber component out of the People's Liberation Army and gave it to the Ministry of State Security. Which in turn turned around and contracted that out to Chinese security companies. But that collection campaign has been, you know, exceeds that of every other country put together. So we have the human activities, the actual collection activities. You have SIGINT activities now out of Cuba, in places that they have the Belt and Road Initiative, and they have built digital infrastructure for countries globally. You have a cyber collection component there. And then you have cyber activities as well. So it's really the apparatuses of the intelligence services are absolutely vast, and compared to any other country. In the United States, certainly there are still turf wars and areas of competing interest amongst the intelligence agencies, but they also cooperate. Is it like that in China? Yeah, that's another thing that Xi Jinping has brought in, cooperation between intelligence services. It used to be the Ministry of State Security and the Ministry of Public Security, the National Police were always at odds with each other. But in the past decade, now they have joint facilities, joint locations, and Xi Jinping has really pushed together a cooperation under the leadership of the Chinese Communist Party, even down to provincial levels. They're always going to have some bureaucratic differences and personality differences. That's sort of a key thing with them. But the levels of cooperation are 100% better than they ever were. You had mentioned Cuba, and you'd also mentioned the Belt and Road Initiative, which has also been a mechanism for spying. Where has China placed most of its resources when it comes to intelligence? Okay. So I'll say that there are two primary targets that leap out, and in fact, my data shows this of almost 900 cases, and adversary number one or target number one is the United States. No surprise. Yeah, clearly. And that's from a national security perspective, as well as an economic espionage. Number two is Taiwan. If you want to talk about the national security collection, half the cases that I hold on national security-related espionage deal with Taiwan. Absolutely pervasive targets set for the PRC. Europe is a secondary as far as technology is concerned. So economic espionage against Germany, France, actually Sweden, and then political manipulation. Very, very aggressive in Europe, and in the United States now at a sub-state, at a sub-federal level. So we used to have it up until about 2019 that targeting for political manipulation, or covert influence, was primarily against the federal government. A Chinese think tank came out with a study that listed all the governors and their attitudes, how favorable towards China. And it recommended that as the attitude hardens in Washington, hardens against China and Washington, we should move to the state levels. And this was done by a think tank for the United Front Work Department. And we've seen that clearly come out in cases now. And I've had former counterintelligence agents of the FBI describe to me how in years past, before this was even brought to light, that the Chinese were going after members of state houses. And they had already started looking at politicians on that level for influence, for leverage. Right. It's absolutely true. The FBI really didn't concern itself with this up until very recently. But it has been going on for quite some period of time, like literally back to the 80s that I can recall. So how is it that this has happened for decades? We've not had arrests. We've not had prosecutions. We've had nothing that has happened up until recently. Well, I would wager that ultimately back in the 80s, China wasn't seen as such a threat. Right. That's exactly correct. And it wasn't until very recently that the investigative spigot, if you will, has been turned on, that we're actually looking at these things. So you have this database. So tell me how you tend to it. OK, well, it's a database that has almost 900 specific cases in it. Thousands of individuals, because in some cases there are multiple individuals. And I list everything from the dates the activities happened, the academic achievement level of the person, exactly what they were trying to get, the type of tradecraft that they employed, broken up into categories, what their motivations were, whether it's an ethno-nationalistic motivation or money or business incentive, as well as some details about their tradecraft and their associations and contacts. So you get all that in a database. And when you start to analyze it, to pull it together, you can start to see, OK, well, the aerospace industry, for example, how many, what type of tradecraft was employed against the aerospace industry and how frequently did it happen and what type of cases? And it really lets you provide for an insider threat. No, no, no. This is your industry, the biotech industry, the aerospace industry. This is exactly how they're targeting you. And by the way, these are the areas and locations that they have been targeting you. So it's it gives you extraordinary insights in that way. And I do put that in my in my latest book. So it starts with open source information out there in the public. But you go deeper than that. I do, because I have been following this this for my entire life. Of course, I get a lot of people, companies that come to me and governments that come to me and say, Nick, here's what happened. You know, the way we saw it internally and provide a lot of extra details. I have, you know, dozens of documents and such that are that are given to me that provide some real insight as to the cases. So the understanding of the tradecraft is really unique. And it allows me to bring that out so that, you know, hopefully helping all those companies and governments that need to understand the threat that's levied against them. Is there any other database like this that you know of? No, no. In fact, I've gotten a lot of offers to purchase or have access or something like that. And I'm actually looking at at how I might provide access to scholars and select, you know, groups that would that would need it. So let's talk about some of these cases. Tell me about a case that you thought was important that didn't seem to get too much attention. A case I thought was important. So a recent one with Mike Sun. Mike Sun is is in is on the West Coast in California. Hey, just this happened this year in twenty twenty five. And he is arrested and still, you know, indicted, arrested now. Trial hasn't gone to trial yet for for supporting a candidate, Aileen Wong, into getting into being a council member. And he worked with an individual by the name of Chen Jie, who had already been arrested for attempting to attempting to attack Fanlonggang. Fanlonggang is a spiritual movement that China wiped out because they felt it to be a threat to the Chinese Communist Party. So we get this guy who concocts who believes he has a recruited asset in the IRS to question Fanlonggang's status in the US to try and remove it as a nonprofit as a US. And they concoct a whole story on it. The only problem is that if that IRS person they thought was working for the FBI. So they go through a whole thing, bring in money from China, have great cover stories, you know, let's get rid of Fanlonggang. That's the idea to get rid of it as a nonprofit inside the United States. Well, it's an FBI sting. This guy gets arrested. But when they look at the investigation, they find this goes back to another activity in Arcadia, California. And this guy, Mike Sun, who has been supporting Aileen Wong for candidacy in the city of Arcadia. And he's working with Chen to develop her thing. He's going back to China for money for the United Front Work Department and saying, hey, we have a perfect candidate here. She's popular. We'll get her into office and then we can expand China's interests here and then globally. This is also a long term strategy that they work. So the intention is to get this person into office so that they can, you know, use it as a long term strategy to grow political power in California. And I'm wondering, did the candidate know who she was dealing with? So great question. Well, I looked up the candidate's background. Turns out they both have the same home address. They have. What a coincidence. What a coincidence. They have been in multiple, multiple businesses together, including one that they started for this money that that that came in and a nonprofit for Chinese citizens. And in a court case levied against those two individuals years earlier or a year earlier, the candidate had said, you know, that we were engaged, identified and identified themselves as an engaged couple. So I'm going to say that that she knew what was going on. Engaged as in to be married? Yes. Engaged as in to be married. Wow. So this is beyond influence now. This is actually essentially allegedly planting a person. Right. That's exactly it. And and it shows that strategy even going down to lower levels. And it shows that strategy of building over a long period of time. Hey, popular candidate, you know, give us eighty thousand dollars. We can go to support this person and expand her her strength and her power in California. So let's talk about tradecraft now and what you've seen in following these cases. And let's start with the bad tradecraft. This is something that I always found particularly amusing to learn about the bad tradecraft. And then we can go to the good. OK. Bad tradecraft. There's a case, Su Jianfeng. OK. He comes he tries to buy radiation hardened chips. He's from England. Liverpool tries to buy radiation hardened chips from a factory in the United States in Arizona that produces it. So he calls and tries to buy it. And they ask, well, what do you want this for? I want this for cars, you know, for automobile applications. So these are radiation hardened chips are like twenty five hundred dollars apiece. You can get the same thing, not radiation hardened for sixty dollars. And, you know, no, no, no. These are the ones I want. These are absolutely the ones I want. And they, you know, COHAB finds this incredulous, right? No. Why would you pay this? Radiation hardened chips are only used when you're in a radiation environment, which is exoatmospheric, you know, outside the atmosphere. So you're talking ballistic missiles or spacecraft. That's it. Those are the applications for that. And and they said, well, where are these chips going? He said China. And I said, tell you what, the chips aren't allowed to go to China. You know, so OK, so the company itself denies him that undaunted. He actually goes to a distributor in Colorado and calls them up with the same story. But now it's changed to no, no, no. They're coming to the UK. The company contacts Homeland Security, Homeland Security gets involved and they say, yeah, talk to our representative, which is a Homeland Security agent. And he wants to buy hundreds of chips, which he gives them the money for, moves it through front companies, sets up a fake website. The actual address of the fictitious company, Meditech, he has goes back to his restaurant in Liverpool. Naturally. Crazy. And then literally comes over to pay to actually they arrange a meet in Bangkok with this with this DHS agent. He meets with a Ministry of State Security representative, a you know, in Bangkok they meet, they discuss the deal, that type of thing. He goes back to the US and goes to hand carry back hundreds and hundreds of chips, you know, as a first shipment. And of course, you know, they arrest him immediately, you know, when he comes. But and you think about that, who calls a company and doesn't know what the applications are of this radiation hard chip. Oh, I want to use it in cars. You know, that's hilarious. It's just ridiculous. I have seen other cases like that, other similar cases. All right. If you want to give me one more bad tradecraft story, because I'm a sucker for bad tradecraft. So Kevin Mallory, and this is a case of Kevin Mallory, former former CIA case officer, former DIA case officer, former friend of mine in Diplomatic Security Service where we were together for five months. You know, we were the only two Chinese speakers in the class. So we got to know each other pretty well. And Kevin went bad and, you know, being in great debt. And there's a lot of he was recruited over LinkedIn, made multiple trips to China, made a few trips to Shanghai and China, allegedly for a think tank, came back with cash, which is always a dangerous thing. But then Kevin went to a FedEx play, you know, FedEx location to copy classified documents. Right. Kevin didn't even copy the documents himself. He gave it to the clerk to copy. You know, what did you what did you not learn from espionage training classes? But you gave it to the clerk. I mean, it could then not be an SNL skit. Yeah, it absolutely could. It's on video. And and then talk about bad tradecraft on the Chinese part. They gave him a cell phone, which he was supposed to send pictures of the classified documents. And then that app was supposed to destroy all evidence. And the app malfunctioned. And that's how the FBI found multiple documents, multiple classified documents on Kevin's phone, because the app didn't work. So bad tradecraft on his part, bad tradecraft on the part of the Ministry of State Security. So let's go on to the strong tradecraft, which might be harder to uncover. Yeah, certainly, because if it's really good tradecraft, we don't know about it. But there are some cases that that sort of stand out. Dixon Yeo being one. Dixon Yeo was recruited. He was a Ph.D. student in Singapore, and he was actually spotted and assessed and recruited by a professor, by his professor, who ultimately the Singaporean government kicked out. But this guy and they expelled him for covert influence activities and such, you know, within Singapore. And he was Dixon Yeo's mentor at the at the university, National University in Singapore. Dixon Yeo makes multiple trips to China. The Ministry of State Security routes him past customs so he doesn't have a stamp in his passport saying that he went to China. They sort of wine and dine him. He studies in China. He's ultimately recruited for service by the Shanghai State Security Bureau. So acting on behalf of China, first they target him against the Singaporean government and then Southeast Asia. He's not able to make, you know, effective gains in an area like that. Then he goes to Washington, D.C. as a visiting scholar at George Washington University. Here he starts making changes or starts making advances. And the operation security they give him is don't communicate with us. If you must communicate, use a cafe or something like that with a different, you know, IP address. When you communicate with us outside of country, use WeChat. And every time you contact us, use a different WeChat account. Delete your own WeChat account, your old one, and then use a new one. So they're really taking strong security measures with this guy. What they ultimately wind up doing is he sets up a company online, Resolute, something or other. But it's the actual name of a real management company. And through that, he recruits people for resumes, offering them employment, offering them employment on doing papers and stuff like that. Four hundred resumes, all top secret security clearance holders he gets. Wow. Passes those off to the Ministry of State Security. Go after this one, that one. Another one, you know, this one. And those are the ones he targets and gets, you know, starts with papers. That first step of let's get unclassified papers. And they do provide papers on the secretary of state, on U.S. position in Afghanistan, on any number of other topics. And each one of those is in a recruitment process that it was a beautiful operation. I mean, it was just absolutely done well. So great, great tradecraft all around. Curious to know, how did he ultimately get caught? I that's a I'm curious myself. How did the bureau know, you know, what he was doing? Because because all the tradecraft steps were right. It's a wilderness of mirrors, as they say. We don't know. Let's talk about Jerry Lee. This is a very serious case. He potentially gave up the names of Chinese spies working for the CIA after there were a slew of people who were arrested, who were killed. Tell me more about that case. Right. Well, Jerry Lee was a case officer. And after his time in the agency, went to Hong Kong and China, went back and forth. In fact, he worked in security for a tobacco company. He was fired from that job for, you know, allegedly kind of mishandling or, you know, working with individuals he shouldn't have been working with. And the MSS approached him, the Ministry of State Security approached him in Hong Kong and said, Jerry, work for us. You're not going to have to work again. Jerry says, yes, OK, I'll do that, and starts, as far as we know, giving them over information on all his clandestine contacts, on all those contacts and CIA operations in China. The FBI actually gets wind of this and tries to entice him to come back to the US for potential employment. And this worked well because the Ministry of State Security was telling him if you can get back into that loop and get back into current classified information. Because remember, Jerry's been out a few years now, and the information, it helps them cover some holes in their security structure, but it's old. And he's only so useful in that regard. So they want him to get current. Standard practice. So coincidentally, the FBI is responsive to that. Sure, come back. He goes to a hotel room in Hawaii and the FBI does a surreptitious penetration of his room and they find his notebook. And he's got all the CIA cases written down, all the names, the true names written down, etc. Now that's some bad tradecraft right there. Yeah, yeah, it is. Sometimes people get lazy and old in the field, you know, being disciplined about sticking to operation security procedure as part of that job. And he wasn't. And that's what ultimately tripped him up and got him arrested and convicted. But tremendous damage that he did. Oh, yeah. Yeah, no question. You don't know exactly what. Even if he did provide the names and such, there were a lot of a few other avenues that China was getting information from that could have resulted in that 2010, you know, publicly a wipe out of American assets inside China. So what actually hurts more than that is then the willingness of people to cooperate with the United States after something like that. You know, a few years later, people are still saying, yeah, I saw what happened five years ago. Don't come near me. I don't want to talk to you guys. So it does have longer range of effects. Right. A very damaging case on the American side. Right. If nothing else. Yes, absolutely. And the Chinese also have made a practice of targeting dissidents to harass them, to silence them, and sometimes to try to bring them across the seas back to China through coercion or even abduction. Right. There have been a lot of cases where you definitely see coercion, implied threats, and sometimes even more directly. 2015, for example, the Causeway Bookstore in Hong Kong, which had been publishing books about Xi Jinping's family. Well, they literally did a rendition operation in Hong Kong and brought the bookstore owner back to China. Three owners brought two back, you know, one from Hong Kong. I don't know where the second one, the third one was in Thailand. And they went and they grabbed him in Thailand and brought him back to China, too. So their outreach and I've seen cases like that in Vietnam where they've done the same thing, you know, rendition operations where they brought people back. So it's it's and this is primarily Ministry of State, Ministry of Public Security going out getting these people. So there's a lot of that going on. There's a lot of Ministry of State security penetration of dissident organizations. There's a case in in New York City recently this this past year, Wang Shujun is the guy's name. And he had been reporting to the Ministry of State Security as much as we can see from about 2006, 2007, working for a nonprofit organization, a allegedly a Chinese democracy organization. Meanwhile, spying on all the other dissidents and informing the Chinese government of their plans and, you know, and helping to thwart and identify people. So a spy in their midst for well over a decade. China also has been very public about its long term strategies. There's Made in China 2025 to dominate the tech sector. There is Vision 35 to become a more modern society. Tell me about a long term case. The Ministry of State Security has a phrase for that. And it was actually taken from Mao Zedong. It's called Chen Diyu, which is literally translates the bottom sinking fish or fish on the bottom of the ocean. And what Mao said, which was followed by Ho Chi Minh in that system, is that all our people are like fish in the ocean. They're all eyes watching any threat that's there and all comes back to the party. So a long term asset in the Ministry of State Security is called that fish on the bottom of the ocean. And we've seen a lot of cases like I've talked to assets that have been placed in the United States with the expectation in 10 years, 15 years, they're going to start working. We see cases like Fang Fang, who was Christine Fang, who was in California at a university, I think it was San Francisco Bay University that she was at. And she quickly rises to run the student association there, two student associations there and ingrains herself into local politics. Right. So she's working with the Chinese diaspora. She's volunteering and supporting Chinese candidates and candidates that support China. She's also supporting Congressman Chihuahua, who also ran for presidency. In fact, people I spoke to said every party that ever happened that I was at, they came in together and they left together. So it was only after the FBI gave him a defensive briefing that they cut contact with her, because what the FBI found is that she was meeting a case officer regularly at the San Francisco consulate. So look at the effort here. Chihuahua ran for the presidency. You know, she was with him since before he was a congressman. So the effort of placing a person, which cost them almost nothing, but placing a person long term and to be able to have influence on a member of Congress and ultimately perhaps the presidency, is an extraordinary investment. It's just an extraordinary way of looking at things. And over those years, she was able to build an extraordinary web of people who were working in politics and other areas of influence, developed relationships with them, some sexual, some social. Yeah, she she absolutely did. But she had some contact with, followed and and supported about 40 politicians with U.S. politicians. So here's a person who is actively working to ingratiate themselves in the American political systems at multiple levels. Having spent so much time tracking these cases, what's the future of China's espionage? I would say the future is looking pretty good for them. And the reason is, is because the West, the adversaries. Don't have an ability to contend with it. They don't they don't have an ability to to understand or to respond to this type of mass approach that China is using. And that's problematic. I mean, we can go hunt down cases and hunt down people left and right and keep doing it and keep doing it. That isn't stopping it. It isn't even slowing it down. We don't have the resources to keep up with this. Nobody. And we're the best, right? We're the best out of anyone in the world. And we don't have the resources to keep up with this. We've got to find a better way. That's the only way that we are going to be able to contend with this activity on behalf of China. These are just the cases that we know. Correct. Knowing all of this, it's a lot to hold. It's a lot to carry. What's weighing on you? So if I think about what keeps me up at night, you know, relative to this. It's how we are structured or how we are not structured to be able to contend with it. And organizational culture is probably our biggest adversary here. Right. The U.S. government is very good about protecting itself. But that doesn't help Procter & Gamble or GE or the thousands of other companies that are really targets for economic espionage. We are losing our intellectual property. And it's been trillions of dollars up until this point. And we are, you know, the FBI has gotten better about working with industry and trying to contend with this. But we're a long way off from from really being able to contend with it. We're just not structured for it. The companies don't want to put out a nickel more than they have to to protect themselves. You know, the government is very limited into how it's structured to support those companies. So we have a very, very long way to go. Thank you so much, Nick. A fascinating conversation. Thank you very much for having me. Thank you.